(profiling)=
# Profiling
Profiling is one of the most important debugging tools to diagnose performance, out of memory, hanging, or other application issues.
Here is a list of common profiling tools you may use when debugging Ray applications. 
- CPU profiling
    - py-spy
- Memory profiling
    - memray
- GPU profiling
    - PyTorch Profiler
- Ray Task / Actor profiling
    - Ray Timeline

If Ray doesn't work with certain profiling tools, try running them without Ray to debug the issues.

(profiling-cpu)=
## CPU profiling
CPU profiling for Driver and Worker processes. This helps you understand the CPU usage by different processes and debug unexpectedly high or low usage.

(profiling-pyspy)=
### py-spy
[py-spy](https://github.com/benfred/py-spy/tree/master) is a sampling profiler for Python programs. Ray Dashboard has native integration with pyspy:

- It lets you visualize what your Python program is spending time on without restarting the program or modifying the code in any way.
- It dumps the stacktrace of the running process so that you can see what the process is doing at a certain time. It is useful when programs hangs.

:::{note}
   If you run Ray in a Docker container, you may run into permission errors when viewing the stack traces. Follow the [solution in the py-spy documentation](https://github.com/benfred/py-spy#how-do-i-run-py-spy-in-docker) to resolve it. If you are a KubeRay user, here is the guide for how to {ref}`configure KubeRay and apply the solution <kuberay-pyspy-integration>`.
:::

Here are the {ref}`steps to use py-spy with Ray and Ray Dashboard <observability-debug-hangs>`.

(profiling-cprofile)=
### cProfile
cProfile is Python’s native profiling module to profile the performance of your Ray application.

Here are the {ref}`steps to use cProfile <dashboard-cprofile>`.

(profiling-memory)=
## Memory profiling
Memory profiling for Driver and Worker processes. This helps you analyze memory allocations in applications, trace memory leaks, and debug high/low memory or out of memory issues.

(profiling-memray)=
### memray
memray is a memory profiler for Python. It can track memory allocations in Python code, in native extension modules, and in the Python interpreter itself.

Here are the {ref}`steps to profile the memory usage of Ray Tasks and Actors <memray-profiling>`.

(profiling-gpu)=
## GPU profiling
GPU and GRAM profiling for your GPU workloads like distributed training. This helps you analyze performance and debug memory issues. 
- PyTorch profiler is supported out of box when used with Ray Train
- NVIDIA Nsight System is not natively supported yet. Leave your comments in this [feature request for Nisght System support](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/issues/19631).

(profiling-pytoch-profiler)=
### PyTorch Profiler
PyTorch Profiler is a tool that allows the collection of performance metrics (especially GPU metrics) during training and inference.

Here are the {ref}`steps to use PyTorch Profiler with Ray Train or Ray Data <performance-debugging-gpu-profiling>`.

(profiling-task_actor)=
## Ray Task / Actor profiling
Profiling the execution time of Ray Tasks and Actors. This helps you analyze performance, identify the stragglers, and understand the distribution of workloads.

(profiling-timeline)=
### Ray Timeline
Open your Ray Job in Ray Dashboard and follow the {ref}`instructions to download and visualize the trace files <dashboard-timeline>` generated by Ray Timeline.
