doc/source/serve/advanced-guides/performance.md, before:

(serve-perf-tuning)=
# Performance Tuning

This section should help you:

- understand Ray Serve's performance characteristics
- find ways to debug and tune your Serve application's performance

:::{note}
This section offers some tips and tricks to improve your Ray Serve application's performance. Check out the [architecture page](serve-architecture) for helpful context, including an overview of the HTTP proxy actor and deployment replica actors.
:::

```{contents}
```

## Performance and known benchmarks

We are continuously benchmarking Ray Serve. The metrics we care about are latency, throughput, and scalability. We can confidently say:

- Ray Serve’s latency overhead is single digit milliseconds, around 1-2 milliseconds on average.
- For throughput, Serve achieves about 3-4k queries per second on a single machine (8 cores) using 1 HTTP proxy actor and 8 replicas performing no-op requests.
- It is horizontally scalable so you can add more machines to increase the overall throughput. Ray Serve is built on top of Ray,
  so its scalability is bounded by Ray’s scalability. Please see Ray’s [scalability envelope](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/blob/master/release/benchmarks/README.md)
  to learn more about the maximum number of nodes and other limitations.

We run long-running benchmarks nightly:

```{eval-rst}
.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Benchmark
     - Description
     - Cluster Details
     - Performance Numbers
   * - `Single Deployment <https://github.com/ray-project/ray/blob/de227ac407d6cad52a4ead09571eff6b1da73a6d/release/serve_tests/workloads/single_deployment_1k_noop_replica.py>`_
     - Runs 10 minute `wrk <https://github.com/wg/wrk>`_ trial on a single no-op deployment with 1000 replicas.
     - Head node: AWS EC2 m5.8xlarge. 32 worker nodes: AWS EC2 m5.8xlarge.
     - * per_thread_latency_avg_ms = 22.41
       * per_thread_latency_max_ms = 1400.0
       * per_thread_avg_tps = 55.75
       * per_thread_max_tps = 121.0
       * per_node_avg_tps = 553.17
       * per_node_avg_transfer_per_sec_KB = 83.19
       * cluster_total_thoughput = 10954456
       * cluster_total_transfer_KB = 1647441.9199999997
       * cluster_total_timeout_requests = 0
       * cluster_max_P50_latency_ms = 8.84
       * cluster_max_P75_latency_ms = 35.31
       * cluster_max_P90_latency_ms = 49.69
       * cluster_max_P99_latency_ms = 56.5
   * - `Multiple Deployments <https://github.com/ray-project/ray/blob/de227ac407d6cad52a4ead09571eff6b1da73a6d/release/serve_tests/workloads/multi_deployment_1k_noop_replica.py>`_
     - Runs 10 minute `wrk <https://github.com/wg/wrk>`_ trial on 10 deployments with 100 replicas each. Each deployment recursively sends queries to up to 5 other deployments.
     - Head node: AWS EC2 m5.8xlarge. 32 worker nodes: AWS EC2 m5.8xlarge.
     - * per_thread_latency_avg_ms = 0.0
       * per_thread_latency_max_ms = 0.0
       * per_thread_avg_tps = 0.0
       * per_thread_max_tps = 0.0
       * per_node_avg_tps = 0.35
       * per_node_avg_transfer_per_sec_KB = 0.05
       * cluster_total_thoughput = 6964
       * cluster_total_transfer_KB = 1047.28
       * cluster_total_timeout_requests = 6964.0
       * cluster_max_P50_latency_ms = 0.0
       * cluster_max_P75_latency_ms = 0.0
       * cluster_max_P90_latency_ms = 0.0
       * cluster_max_P99_latency_ms = 0.0
   * - `Deployment Graph: Ensemble <https://github.com/ray-project/ray/blob/f6735f90c72581baf83a9cea7cbbe3ea2f6a56d8/release/serve_tests/workloads/deployment_graph_wide_ensemble.py>`_
     - Runs 10 node ensemble, constructed with a call graph, that performs basic arithmetic at each node. Ensemble pattern routes the input to 10 different nodes, and their outputs are combined to produce the final output. Simulates 4 clients making 20 requests each.
     - Head node: AWS EC2 m5.8xlarge. 0 Worker nodes.
     - * throughput_mean_tps = 8.75
       * throughput_std_tps = 0.43
       * latency_mean_ms = 126.15
       * latency_std_ms = 18.35
```

:::{note}
The performance numbers above come from a recent run of the nightly benchmarks.
:::

<!--- See https://github.com/ray-project/ray/pull/27711 for more context on the benchmarks. -->

Check out [our benchmark workloads'](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/tree/f6735f90c72581baf83a9cea7cbbe3ea2f6a56d8/release/serve_tests/workloads) source code directly to get a better sense of what they test. You can see which cluster templates each benchmark uses [here](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/blob/8eca6ae852e2d23bcf49680fef6f0384a1b63564/release/release_tests.yaml#L2328-L2576) (under the `cluster_compute` key), and you can see what type of nodes each template spins up [here](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/tree/8beb887bbed31ecea3d2813b61833b81c45712e1/release/serve_tests).

You can check out our [microbenchmark instructions](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/blob/master/python/ray/serve/benchmarks/README.md)
to benchmark Ray Serve on your hardware.

## Debugging performance issues

The performance issue you're most likely to encounter is high latency and/or low throughput for requests.

Once you set up [monitoring](serve-monitoring) with Ray and Ray Serve, these issues may appear as:

* `serve_num_router_requests` staying constant while your load increases
* `serve_deployment_processing_latency_ms` spiking up as queries queue up in the background

There are handful of ways to address these issues:

1. Make sure you are using the right hardware and resources:
   * Are you reserving GPUs for your deployment replicas using `ray_actor_options` (e.g. `ray_actor_options={“num_gpus”: 1}`)?
   * Are you reserving one or more cores for your deployment replicas using `ray_actor_options` (e.g. `ray_actor_options={“num_cpus”: 2}`)?
   * Are you setting [OMP_NUM_THREADS](serve-omp-num-threads) to increase the performance of your deep learning framework?
2. Try batching your requests. See [Dynamic Request Batching](serve-performance-batching-requests).
3. Consider using `async` methods in your callable. See [the section below](serve-performance-async-methods).
4. Set an end-to-end timeout for your HTTP requests. See [the section below](serve-performance-e2e-timeout).


(serve-performance-async-methods)=
### Using `async` methods

:::{note}
According to the [FastAPI documentation](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/async/#very-technical-details), `def` endpoint functions will be called in a separate threadpool, so you might observe many requests running at the same time inside one replica, and this scenario might cause OOM or resource starvation. In this case, you can try to use `async def` to control the workload performance.
:::

Are you using `async def` in your callable? If you are using `asyncio` and
hitting the same queuing issue mentioned above, you might want to increase
`max_concurrent_queries`. Serve sets a low number (100) by default so the client gets
proper backpressure. You can increase the value in the deployment decorator; e.g.
`@serve.deployment(max_concurrent_queries=1000)`.

(serve-performance-e2e-timeout)=
### Set an end-to-end request timeout

By default, Serve lets client HTTP requests run to completion no matter how long they take. However, slow requests could bottleneck the replica processing, blocking other requests that are waiting. It's recommended that you set an end-to-end timeout, so slow requests can be terminated and retried at another replica.

You can set an end-to-end timeout for HTTP requests by setting the `request_timeout_s` in the `http_options` field of the Serve config. HTTP Proxies will wait for that many seconds before terminating an HTTP request and retrying it at another replica. This config is global to your Ray cluster, and it cannot be updated during runtime.

(serve-performance-http-retry)=
### Set request retry times

By default, the Serve HTTP proxy retries up to `10` times when a response is not received due to failures (e.g. network disconnect, request timeout, etc.).

Commit message:

[Serve] Apply `request_timeout_s` from Serve config to the cluster (#37884)
Currently, the Serve config's `request_timeout_s` field is ignored. This change makes Serve pass in `request_timeout_s` to the HTTP Proxies when starting up, so the field is respected.

Signed-off-by: NripeshN <nn2012@hw.ac.uk>

doc/source/serve/advanced-guides/performance.md, after:

(serve-perf-tuning)=
# Performance Tuning

This section should help you:

- understand Ray Serve's performance characteristics
- find ways to debug and tune your Serve application's performance

:::{note}
This section offers some tips and tricks to improve your Ray Serve application's performance. Check out the [architecture page](serve-architecture) for helpful context, including an overview of the HTTP proxy actor and deployment replica actors.
:::

```{contents}
```

## Performance and known benchmarks

We are continuously benchmarking Ray Serve. The metrics we care about are latency, throughput, and scalability. We can confidently say:

- Ray Serve’s latency overhead is single digit milliseconds, around 1-2 milliseconds on average.
- For throughput, Serve achieves about 3-4k queries per second on a single machine (8 cores) using 1 HTTP proxy actor and 8 replicas performing no-op requests.
- It is horizontally scalable so you can add more machines to increase the overall throughput. Ray Serve is built on top of Ray,
  so its scalability is bounded by Ray’s scalability. Please see Ray’s [scalability envelope](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/blob/master/release/benchmarks/README.md)
  to learn more about the maximum number of nodes and other limitations.

We run long-running benchmarks nightly:

```{eval-rst}
.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Benchmark
     - Description
     - Cluster Details
     - Performance Numbers
   * - `Single Deployment <https://github.com/ray-project/ray/blob/de227ac407d6cad52a4ead09571eff6b1da73a6d/release/serve_tests/workloads/single_deployment_1k_noop_replica.py>`_
     - Runs 10 minute `wrk <https://github.com/wg/wrk>`_ trial on a single no-op deployment with 1000 replicas.
     - Head node: AWS EC2 m5.8xlarge. 32 worker nodes: AWS EC2 m5.8xlarge.
     - * per_thread_latency_avg_ms = 22.41
       * per_thread_latency_max_ms = 1400.0
       * per_thread_avg_tps = 55.75
       * per_thread_max_tps = 121.0
       * per_node_avg_tps = 553.17
       * per_node_avg_transfer_per_sec_KB = 83.19
       * cluster_total_thoughput = 10954456
       * cluster_total_transfer_KB = 1647441.9199999997
       * cluster_total_timeout_requests = 0
       * cluster_max_P50_latency_ms = 8.84
       * cluster_max_P75_latency_ms = 35.31
       * cluster_max_P90_latency_ms = 49.69
       * cluster_max_P99_latency_ms = 56.5
   * - `Multiple Deployments <https://github.com/ray-project/ray/blob/de227ac407d6cad52a4ead09571eff6b1da73a6d/release/serve_tests/workloads/multi_deployment_1k_noop_replica.py>`_
     - Runs 10 minute `wrk <https://github.com/wg/wrk>`_ trial on 10 deployments with 100 replicas each. Each deployment recursively sends queries to up to 5 other deployments.
     - Head node: AWS EC2 m5.8xlarge. 32 worker nodes: AWS EC2 m5.8xlarge.
     - * per_thread_latency_avg_ms = 0.0
       * per_thread_latency_max_ms = 0.0
       * per_thread_avg_tps = 0.0
       * per_thread_max_tps = 0.0
       * per_node_avg_tps = 0.35
       * per_node_avg_transfer_per_sec_KB = 0.05
       * cluster_total_thoughput = 6964
       * cluster_total_transfer_KB = 1047.28
       * cluster_total_timeout_requests = 6964.0
       * cluster_max_P50_latency_ms = 0.0
       * cluster_max_P75_latency_ms = 0.0
       * cluster_max_P90_latency_ms = 0.0
       * cluster_max_P99_latency_ms = 0.0
   * - `Deployment Graph: Ensemble <https://github.com/ray-project/ray/blob/f6735f90c72581baf83a9cea7cbbe3ea2f6a56d8/release/serve_tests/workloads/deployment_graph_wide_ensemble.py>`_
     - Runs 10 node ensemble, constructed with a call graph, that performs basic arithmetic at each node. Ensemble pattern routes the input to 10 different nodes, and their outputs are combined to produce the final output. Simulates 4 clients making 20 requests each.
     - Head node: AWS EC2 m5.8xlarge. 0 Worker nodes.
     - * throughput_mean_tps = 8.75
       * throughput_std_tps = 0.43
       * latency_mean_ms = 126.15
       * latency_std_ms = 18.35
```

:::{note}
The performance numbers above come from a recent run of the nightly benchmarks.
:::

<!--- See https://github.com/ray-project/ray/pull/27711 for more context on the benchmarks. -->

Check out [our benchmark workloads'](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/tree/f6735f90c72581baf83a9cea7cbbe3ea2f6a56d8/release/serve_tests/workloads) source code directly to get a better sense of what they test. You can see which cluster templates each benchmark uses [here](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/blob/8eca6ae852e2d23bcf49680fef6f0384a1b63564/release/release_tests.yaml#L2328-L2576) (under the `cluster_compute` key), and you can see what type of nodes each template spins up [here](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/tree/8beb887bbed31ecea3d2813b61833b81c45712e1/release/serve_tests).

You can check out our [microbenchmark instructions](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/blob/master/python/ray/serve/benchmarks/README.md)
to benchmark Ray Serve on your hardware.

## Debugging performance issues

The performance issue you're most likely to encounter is high latency and/or low throughput for requests.

Once you set up [monitoring](serve-monitoring) with Ray and Ray Serve, these issues may appear as:

* `serve_num_router_requests` staying constant while your load increases
* `serve_deployment_processing_latency_ms` spiking up as queries queue up in the background

There are handful of ways to address these issues:

1. Make sure you are using the right hardware and resources:
   * Are you reserving GPUs for your deployment replicas using `ray_actor_options` (e.g. `ray_actor_options={“num_gpus”: 1}`)?
   * Are you reserving one or more cores for your deployment replicas using `ray_actor_options` (e.g. `ray_actor_options={“num_cpus”: 2}`)?
   * Are you setting [OMP_NUM_THREADS](serve-omp-num-threads) to increase the performance of your deep learning framework?
2. Try batching your requests. See [Dynamic Request Batching](serve-performance-batching-requests).
3. Consider using `async` methods in your callable. See [the section below](serve-performance-async-methods).
4. Set an end-to-end timeout for your HTTP requests. See [the section below](serve-performance-e2e-timeout).


(serve-performance-async-methods)=
### Using `async` methods

:::{note}
According to the [FastAPI documentation](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/async/#very-technical-details), `def` endpoint functions will be called in a separate threadpool, so you might observe many requests running at the same time inside one replica, and this scenario might cause OOM or resource starvation. In this case, you can try to use `async def` to control the workload performance.
:::

Are you using `async def` in your callable? If you are using `asyncio` and
hitting the same queuing issue mentioned above, you might want to increase
`max_concurrent_queries`. Serve sets a low number (100) by default so the client gets
proper backpressure. You can increase the value in the deployment decorator; e.g.
`@serve.deployment(max_concurrent_queries=1000)`.

(serve-performance-e2e-timeout)=
### Set an end-to-end request timeout

By default, Serve lets client HTTP requests run to completion no matter how long they take. However, slow requests could bottleneck the replica processing, blocking other requests that are waiting. It's recommended that you set an end-to-end timeout, so slow requests can be terminated and retried.

You can set an end-to-end timeout for HTTP requests by setting the `request_timeout_s` in the `http_options` field of the Serve config. HTTP Proxies will wait for that many seconds before terminating an HTTP request. This config is global to your Ray cluster, and it cannot be updated during runtime. Use [client-side retries](serve-best-practices-http-requests) to retry requests that time out due to transient failures.
