doc/source/_includes/_contribute.md, before:

```{admonition} Get involved and become part of the Ray community
:class: tip

💬 [Join our community](https://forms.gle/9TSdDYUgxYs8SA9e8): 
Discuss all things Ray with us in our community Slack channel or use our 
[discussion board](https://discuss.ray.io/) to ask questions and get answers.

💡 [Open an issue](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/issues/new/choose): 
Help us improve Ray by submitting feature requests, bug-reports, or simply ask for help and get support via GitHub issues.

👩‍💻 [Create a pull request](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/pulls): 
Found a typo in the documentation? Want to add a new feature? Submit a pull request to help us improve Ray.

🐦 [Follow us on Twitter](https://twitter.com/raydistributed): 
Stay up to date with the latest news and updates on Ray.

⭐ [Star and follow us on GitHub](https://github.com/ray-project/ray): 
Support Ray by following its development on GitHub and give us a boost by starring the project.

🤝🏿 [Join our Meetup Group](https://www.meetup.com/Bay-Area-Ray-Meetup/): 
Join one of our community events to learn more about Ray and get a chance to meet the team behind Ray.

🙌 [Discuss on Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/ray): 
Use the `[ray]` tag on Stack Overflow to ask and answer questions about Ray usage.
```

Commit message:

[Docs] Add Ray newsletter to 'Get involved'
Signed-off-by: Philipp Moritz <pcmoritz@gmail.com>

doc/source/_includes/_contribute.md, after:

```{admonition} Get involved and become part of the Ray community
:class: tip

💬 [Join our community](https://forms.gle/9TSdDYUgxYs8SA9e8): 
Discuss all things Ray with us in our community Slack channel or use our 
[discussion board](https://discuss.ray.io/) to ask questions and get answers.

💡 [Open an issue](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/issues/new/choose): 
Help us improve Ray by submitting feature requests, bug-reports, or simply ask for help and get support via GitHub issues.

👩‍💻 [Create a pull request](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/pulls): 
Found a typo in the documentation? Want to add a new feature? Submit a pull request to help us improve Ray.

📰 [Subscribe to the Ray newsletter](https://share.hsforms.com/1Ee3Gh8c9TY69ZQib-yZJvgc7w85):
Get the latest news from Ray in a monthly email: Ray updates, community highlights, events, useful tutorials, and more!

🐦 [Follow us on Twitter](https://twitter.com/raydistributed): 
Stay up to date with the latest news and updates on Ray.

⭐ [Star and follow us on GitHub](https://github.com/ray-project/ray): 
Support Ray by following its development on GitHub and give us a boost by starring the project.

🤝🏿 [Join our Meetup Group](https://www.meetup.com/Bay-Area-Ray-Meetup/): 
Join one of our community events to learn more about Ray and get a chance to meet the team behind Ray.

🙌 [Discuss on Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/ray): 
Use the `[ray]` tag on Stack Overflow to ask and answer questions about Ray usage.
```
