doc/source/train/getting-started-pytorch-lightning.rst, before:

.. _train-pytorch-lightning:

Getting Started with PyTorch Lightning
======================================

This tutorial will walk you through the process of converting an existing PyTorch Lightning script to use Ray Train.

By the end of this, you will learn how to:

1. Configure your Lightning Trainer so that it runs distributed with Ray and is placed on the correct CPU/GPU device.
2. Configure your training function to report metrics and save checkpoints.
3. Configure scale and CPU/GPU resource requirements for your training job.
4. Launch your distributed training job with a :class:`~ray.train.torch.TorchTrainer`.

Quickstart
----------

Before we begin, you can expect that the final code will look something like this:

.. code-block:: python

    from ray.train.torch import TorchTrainer
    from ray.train import ScalingConfig

    def train_func(config):
        # Your PyTorch Lightning training code here.
    
    scaling_config = ScalingConfig(num_workers=2, use_gpu=True)
    trainer = TorchTrainer(train_func, scaling_config=scaling_config)
    result = trainer.fit()

1. Your `train_func` will be the Python code that is executed on each distributed training worker.
2. Your `ScalingConfig` will define the number of distributed training workers and whether to use GPUs.
3. Your `TorchTrainer` will launch the distributed training job.

Let's compare a PyTorch Lightning training script with and without Ray Train.

.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: PyTorch Lightning

        .. code-block:: python

            import torch
            from torchvision.models import resnet18
            from torchvision.datasets import FashionMNIST
            from torchvision.transforms import ToTensor, Normalize, Compose
            from torch.utils.data import DataLoader
            import pytorch_lightning as pl

            # Model, Loss, Optimizer
            class ImageClassifier(pl.LightningModule):
                def __init__(self):
                    super(ImageClassifier, self).__init__()
                    self.model = resnet18(num_classes=10)
                    self.model.conv1 = torch.nn.Conv2d(1, 64, kernel_size=(7, 7), stride=(2, 2), padding=(3, 3), bias=False)
                    self.criterion = torch.nn.CrossEntropyLoss()
                
                def forward(self, x):
                    return self.model(x)
                
                def training_step(self, batch, batch_idx):
                    x, y = batch
                    outputs = self.forward(x)
                    loss = self.criterion(outputs, y)
                    self.log("loss", loss, on_step=True, prog_bar=True)
                    return loss
                    
                def configure_optimizers(self):
                    return torch.optim.Adam(self.model.parameters(), lr=0.001)

            # Data
            transform = Compose([ToTensor(), Normalize((0.5,), (0.5,))])
            train_data = FashionMNIST(root='./data', train=True, download=True, transform=transform)
            train_dataloader = DataLoader(train_data, batch_size=128, shuffle=True)

            # Training
            model = ImageClassifier()
            trainer = pl.Trainer(max_epochs=10)
            trainer.fit(model, train_dataloaders=train_dataloader)

                

    .. group-tab:: PyTorch Lightning + Ray Train

        .. code-block:: python

            import torch
            from torchvision.models import resnet18
            from torchvision.datasets import FashionMNIST
            from torchvision.transforms import ToTensor, Normalize, Compose
            from torch.utils.data import DataLoader
            import pytorch_lightning as pl

            from ray.train.torch import TorchTrainer
            from ray.train import ScalingConfig
            import ray.train.lightning

            # Model, Loss, Optimizer
            class ImageClassifier(pl.LightningModule):
                def __init__(self):
                    super(ImageClassifier, self).__init__()
                    self.model = resnet18(num_classes=10)
                    self.model.conv1 = torch.nn.Conv2d(1, 64, kernel_size=(7, 7), stride=(2, 2), padding=(3, 3), bias=False)
                    self.criterion = torch.nn.CrossEntropyLoss()
                
                def forward(self, x):
                    return self.model(x)
                
                def training_step(self, batch, batch_idx):
                    x, y = batch
                    outputs = self.forward(x)
                    loss = self.criterion(outputs, y)
                    self.log("loss", loss, on_step=True, prog_bar=True)
                    return loss
                    
                def configure_optimizers(self):
                    return torch.optim.Adam(self.model.parameters(), lr=0.001)
       

            def train_func(config):

                # Data
                transform = Compose([ToTensor(), Normalize((0.5,), (0.5,))])
                train_data = FashionMNIST(root='./data', train=True, download=True, transform=transform)
                train_dataloader = DataLoader(train_data, batch_size=128, shuffle=True)

                # Training
                model = ImageClassifier()
                # [1] Configure PyTorch Lightning Trainer.
                trainer = pl.Trainer(
                    max_epochs=10,
                    devices="auto",
                    accelerator="auto",
                    strategy=ray.train.lightning.RayDDPStrategy(),
                    plugins=[ray.train.lightning.RayLightningEnvironment()],
                    callbacks=[ray.train.lightning.RayTrainReportCallback()],
                )
                trainer = ray.train.lightning.prepare_trainer(trainer)
                trainer.fit(model, train_dataloaders=train_dataloader)

            # [2] Configure scaling and resource requirements.
            scaling_config = ScalingConfig(num_workers=2, use_gpu=True)

            # [3] Launch distributed training job.
            trainer = TorchTrainer(train_func, scaling_config=scaling_config)
            result = trainer.fit()            


Now, let's get started!

Setting up your training function
---------------------------------

First, you'll want to update your training code to support distributed training. 
You can begin by wrapping your code in a function:

.. code-block:: python

    def train_func(config):
        # Your PyTorch Lightning training code here.

This function will be executed on each distributed training worker.


Ray Train will set up your distributed process group on each worker. You only need to 
make a few changes to your Lightning Trainer definition.

.. code-block:: diff

     import pytorch_lightning as pl
    -from pl.strategies import DDPStrategy
    -from pl.plugins.environments import LightningEnvironment
    +import ray.train.lightning 

     def train_func(config):
         ...
         model = MyLightningModule(...)
         datamodule = MyLightningDataModule(...)
        
         trainer = pl.Trainer(
    -        devices=[0,1,2,3],
    -        strategy=DDPStrategy(),
    -        plugins=[LightningEnvironment()],
    +        devices="auto",
    +        accelerator="auto",
    +        strategy=ray.train.lightning.RayDDPStrategy(),
    +        plugins=[ray.train.lightning.RayLightningEnvironment()]
         )
    +    trainer = ray.train.lightning.prepare_trainer(trainer)
        
         trainer.fit(model, datamodule=datamodule)

We will now go over each change.

Configuring distributed strategy
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Ray Train offers several subclassed distributed strategies for Lightning. 
These strategies retain the same argument list as their base strategy classes. 
Internally, they configure the root device and the distributed 
sampler arguments.
    
- :class:`~ray.train.lightning.RayDDPStrategy` 
- :class:`~ray.train.lightning.RayFSDPStrategy` 
- :class:`~ray.train.lightning.RayDeepSpeedStrategy` 


.. code-block:: diff

     import pytorch_lightning as pl
    -from pl.strategies import DDPStrategy
    +import ray.train.lightning

     def train_func(config):
         ...
         trainer = pl.Trainer(
             ...
    -        strategy=DDPStrategy(),
    +        strategy=ray.train.lightning.RayDDPStrategy(),
             ...
         )
         ...

Configuring Ray cluster environment plugin
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Ray Train also provides :class:`~ray.train.lightning.RayLightningEnvironment` 
as a specification for Ray Cluster. This utility class configures the worker's 
local, global, and node rank and world size.


.. code-block:: diff

     import pytorch_lightning as pl
    -from pl.plugins.environments import LightningEnvironment
    +import ray.train.lightning

     def train_func(config):
         ...
         trainer = pl.Trainer(
             ...
    -        plugins=[LightningEnvironment()],
    +        plugins=[ray.train.lightning.RayLightningEnvironment()],
             ...
         )
         ...


Configuring parallel devices
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In addition, Ray TorchTrainer has already configured the correct 
``CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES`` for you. One should always use all available 
GPUs by setting ``devices="auto"`` and ``acelerator="auto"``.


.. code-block:: diff

     import pytorch_lightning as pl

     def train_func(config):
         ...
         trainer = pl.Trainer(
             ...
    -        devices=[0,1,2,3],
    +        devices="auto",
    +        accelerator="auto",
             ...
         )
         ...



Reporting checkpoints and metrics
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To persist your checkpoints and monitor training progress, simply add a 
:class:`ray.train.lightning.RayTrainReportCallback` utility callback to your Trainer. 

                    
.. code-block:: diff

     import pytorch_lightning as pl
     from ray.train.lightning import RayTrainReportCallback

     def train_func(config):
         ...
         trainer = pl.Trainer(
             ...
    -        callbacks=[...],
    +        callbacks=[..., RayTrainReportCallback()],
         )
         ...


Reporting metrics and checkpoints to Ray Train enables you to support :ref:`fault-tolerant training <train-fault-tolerance>` and :ref:`hyperparameter optimization <train-tune>`. 
Note that the :class:`ray.train.lightning.RayTrainReportCallback` only provides a simple implementation, and can be :ref:`further customized <train-dl-saving-checkpoints>`.

Preparing your Lightning Trainer
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Finally, pass your Lightning Trainer into
:meth:`~ray.train.lightning.prepare_trainer` to validate 
your configurations. 


.. code-block:: diff

     import pytorch_lightning as pl
     import ray.train.lightning

     def train_func(config):
         ...
         trainer = pl.Trainer(...)
    +    trainer = ray.train.lightning.prepare_trainer(trainer)
         ...


Configuring scale and GPUs
---------------------------

Outside of your training function, create a :class:`~ray.train.ScalingConfig` object to configure:

1. `num_workers` - The number of distributed training worker processes.
2. `use_gpu` - Whether each worker should use a GPU (or CPU).

.. code-block:: python

    from ray.train import ScalingConfig
    scaling_config = ScalingConfig(num_workers=2, use_gpu=True)


For more details, see :ref:`train_scaling_config`.

Launching your training job
---------------------------

Tying this all together, you can now launch a distributed training job 
with a :class:`~ray.train.torch.TorchTrainer`.

.. code-block:: python

    from ray.train.torch import TorchTrainer

    trainer = TorchTrainer(train_func, scaling_config=scaling_config)
    result = trainer.fit()

Please also refer to :ref:`train-run-config` for more configuration options for `TorchTrainer`.

Accessing training results
--------------------------

After training completes, a :class:`~ray.train.Result` object will be returned which contains
information about the training run, including the metrics and checkpoints reported during training.

.. code-block:: python

    result.metrics     # The metrics reported during training.
    result.checkpoint  # The latest checkpoint reported during training.
    result.log_dir     # The path where logs are stored.
    result.error       # The exception that was raised, if training failed.

.. TODO: Add results guide

Next steps
---------- 

Congratulations! You have successfully converted your PyTorch Lightningtraining script to use Ray Train.

* Head over to the :ref:`User Guides <train-user-guides>` to learn more about how to perform specific tasks.
* Browse the :ref:`Examples <train-examples>` for end-to-end examples of how to use Ray Train.
* Dive into the :ref:`API Reference <train-api>` for more details on the classes and methods used in this tutorial.

Version Compatibility
---------------------

Ray Train is tested with `pytorch_lightning` versions `1.6.5` and `2.0.4`. For full compatibility, we recommend using ``pytorch_lightning>=1.6.5`` . 
Earlier versions are not prohibited but may result in unexpected issues. If you run into any compatibility issues, consider upgrading your PyTorch Lightning version or 
`file an issue <https://github.com/ray-project/ray/issues>`_. 

.. _lightning-trainer-migration-guide:

``LightningTrainer`` Migration Guide
------------------------------------

The `LightningTrainer` was added in Ray 2.4, and exposes a  
`LightningConfigBuilder` to define configurations for `pl.LightningModule` 
and `pl.Trainer`. 

It then instantiates the model and trainer objects and runs a pre-defined 
training loop in a black box.


This version of our LightningTrainer API was constraining and limited 
the users' ability to manage the training functionality.

In Ray 2.7, we're pleased to introduce the newly unified :class:`~ray.train.torch.TorchTrainer` API, which offers 
enhanced transparency, flexibility, and simplicity. This API is more aligned
with standard PyTorch Lightning scripts, ensuring users have better 
control over their native Lightning code.


.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: (Deprecating) LightningTrainer


        .. code-block:: python
            
            from ray.train.lightning import LightningConfigBuilder, LightningTrainer

            config_builder = LightningConfigBuilder()
            # [1] Collect model configs
            config_builder.module(cls=MNISTClassifier, lr=1e-3, feature_dim=128)

            # [2] Collect checkpointing configs
            config_builder.checkpointing(monitor="val_accuracy", mode="max", save_top_k=3)

            # [3] Collect pl.Trainer configs
            config_builder.trainer(
                max_epochs=10,
                accelerator="gpu",
                log_every_n_steps=100,
                logger=CSVLogger("./logs"),
            )

            # [4] Build datasets on the head node
            datamodule = MNISTDataModule(batch_size=32)
            config_builder.fit_params(datamodule=datamodule)

            # [5] Execute the internal training function in a black box
            ray_trainer = LightningTrainer(
                lightning_config=config_builder.build(),
                scaling_config=ScalingConfig(num_workers=4, use_gpu=True),
                run_config=RunConfig(
                    checkpoint_config=CheckpointConfig(
                        num_to_keep=3,
                        checkpoint_score_attribute="val_accuracy",
                        checkpoint_score_order="max",
                    ),
                )
            )
            ray_trainer.fit()

                

    .. group-tab:: (New API) TorchTrainer

        .. code-block:: python
            
            import pytorch_lightning as pl
            from ray.train.torch import TorchTrainer
            from ray.train.lightning import (
                RayDDPStrategy, 
                RayLightningEnvironment,
                RayTrainReportCallback,
                prepare_trainer
            ) 

            def train_func(config):
                # [1] Create a Lightning model
                model = MNISTClassifier(lr=1e-3, feature_dim=128)

                # [2] Report Checkpoint with callback
                ckpt_report_callback = RayTrainReportCallback()
                
                # [3] Create a Lighting Trainer
                datamodule = MNISTDataModule(batch_size=32)

                trainer = pl.Trainer(
                    max_epochs=10,
                    log_every_n_steps=100,
                    logger=CSVLogger("./logs"),
                    # New configurations below
                    devices="auto",
                    accelerator="auto",
                    strategy=RayDDPStrategy(),
                    plugins=[RayLightningEnvironment()],
                    callbacks=[ckpt_report_callback],
                )

                # Validate your Lightning trainer configuration
                trainer = prepare_trainer(trainer)

                # [4] Build your datasets on each worker
                datamodule = MNISTDataModule(batch_size=32)
                trainer.fit(model, datamodule=datamodule)

            # [5] Explicitly define and run the training function
            ray_trainer = TorchTrainer(
                train_func_per_worker,
                scaling_config=ScalingConfig(num_workers=4, use_gpu=True),
                run_config=RunConfig(
                    checkpoint_config=CheckpointConfig(
                        num_to_keep=3,
                        checkpoint_score_attribute="val_accuracy",
                        checkpoint_score_order="max",
                    ),
                )
            )
            ray_trainer.fit()

Commit message:

[docs] Update getting-started-pytorch-lightning.rst (#38563)
* Update getting-started-pytorch-lightning.rst

made some edits for concision

Signed-off-by: angelinalg <122562471+angelinalg@users.noreply.github.com>

* copy edits to pytorch-based guides

Signed-off-by: angelina <angelina@kelvin-test-GV9VPVHXNQ.local.meter>

* copy edits

Signed-off-by: angelina <angelina@kelvin-test-GV9VPVHXNQ.local>

---------

Signed-off-by: angelinalg <122562471+angelinalg@users.noreply.github.com>
Signed-off-by: angelina <angelina@kelvin-test-GV9VPVHXNQ.local.meter>
Signed-off-by: angelina <angelina@kelvin-test-GV9VPVHXNQ.local>
Co-authored-by: angelina <angelina@kelvin-test-GV9VPVHXNQ.local.meter>
Co-authored-by: angelina <angelina@kelvin-test-GV9VPVHXNQ.local>

doc/source/train/getting-started-pytorch-lightning.rst, after:

.. _train-pytorch-lightning:

Getting Started with PyTorch Lightning
======================================

This tutorial walks through the process of converting an existing PyTorch Lightning script to use Ray Train.

Learn how to:

1. Configure your Lightning Trainer so that it runs distributed with Ray and is placed on the correct CPU/GPU device.
2. Configure your training function to report metrics and save checkpoints.
3. Configure scale and CPU/GPU resource requirements for your training job.
4. Launch your distributed training job with a :class:`~ray.train.torch.TorchTrainer`.

Quickstart
----------

For reference, the final code follows:

.. code-block:: python

    from ray.train.torch import TorchTrainer
    from ray.train import ScalingConfig

    def train_func(config):
        # Your PyTorch Lightning training code here.
    
    scaling_config = ScalingConfig(num_workers=2, use_gpu=True)
    trainer = TorchTrainer(train_func, scaling_config=scaling_config)
    result = trainer.fit()

1. Your `train_func` is the Python code that is executed on each distributed training worker.
2. Your `ScalingConfig` defines the number of distributed training workers and whether to use GPUs.
3. Your `TorchTrainer` launches the distributed training job.

Compare a PyTorch Lightning training script with and without Ray Train.

.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: PyTorch Lightning

        .. code-block:: python

            import torch
            from torchvision.models import resnet18
            from torchvision.datasets import FashionMNIST
            from torchvision.transforms import ToTensor, Normalize, Compose
            from torch.utils.data import DataLoader
            import pytorch_lightning as pl

            # Model, Loss, Optimizer
            class ImageClassifier(pl.LightningModule):
                def __init__(self):
                    super(ImageClassifier, self).__init__()
                    self.model = resnet18(num_classes=10)
                    self.model.conv1 = torch.nn.Conv2d(1, 64, kernel_size=(7, 7), stride=(2, 2), padding=(3, 3), bias=False)
                    self.criterion = torch.nn.CrossEntropyLoss()
                
                def forward(self, x):
                    return self.model(x)
                
                def training_step(self, batch, batch_idx):
                    x, y = batch
                    outputs = self.forward(x)
                    loss = self.criterion(outputs, y)
                    self.log("loss", loss, on_step=True, prog_bar=True)
                    return loss
                    
                def configure_optimizers(self):
                    return torch.optim.Adam(self.model.parameters(), lr=0.001)

            # Data
            transform = Compose([ToTensor(), Normalize((0.5,), (0.5,))])
            train_data = FashionMNIST(root='./data', train=True, download=True, transform=transform)
            train_dataloader = DataLoader(train_data, batch_size=128, shuffle=True)

            # Training
            model = ImageClassifier()
            trainer = pl.Trainer(max_epochs=10)
            trainer.fit(model, train_dataloaders=train_dataloader)

                

    .. group-tab:: PyTorch Lightning + Ray Train

        .. code-block:: python

            import torch
            from torchvision.models import resnet18
            from torchvision.datasets import FashionMNIST
            from torchvision.transforms import ToTensor, Normalize, Compose
            from torch.utils.data import DataLoader
            import pytorch_lightning as pl

            from ray.train.torch import TorchTrainer
            from ray.train import ScalingConfig
            import ray.train.lightning

            # Model, Loss, Optimizer
            class ImageClassifier(pl.LightningModule):
                def __init__(self):
                    super(ImageClassifier, self).__init__()
                    self.model = resnet18(num_classes=10)
                    self.model.conv1 = torch.nn.Conv2d(1, 64, kernel_size=(7, 7), stride=(2, 2), padding=(3, 3), bias=False)
                    self.criterion = torch.nn.CrossEntropyLoss()
                
                def forward(self, x):
                    return self.model(x)
                
                def training_step(self, batch, batch_idx):
                    x, y = batch
                    outputs = self.forward(x)
                    loss = self.criterion(outputs, y)
                    self.log("loss", loss, on_step=True, prog_bar=True)
                    return loss
                    
                def configure_optimizers(self):
                    return torch.optim.Adam(self.model.parameters(), lr=0.001)
       

            def train_func(config):

                # Data
                transform = Compose([ToTensor(), Normalize((0.5,), (0.5,))])
                train_data = FashionMNIST(root='./data', train=True, download=True, transform=transform)
                train_dataloader = DataLoader(train_data, batch_size=128, shuffle=True)

                # Training
                model = ImageClassifier()
                # [1] Configure PyTorch Lightning Trainer.
                trainer = pl.Trainer(
                    max_epochs=10,
                    devices="auto",
                    accelerator="auto",
                    strategy=ray.train.lightning.RayDDPStrategy(),
                    plugins=[ray.train.lightning.RayLightningEnvironment()],
                    callbacks=[ray.train.lightning.RayTrainReportCallback()],
                )
                trainer = ray.train.lightning.prepare_trainer(trainer)
                trainer.fit(model, train_dataloaders=train_dataloader)

            # [2] Configure scaling and resource requirements.
            scaling_config = ScalingConfig(num_workers=2, use_gpu=True)

            # [3] Launch distributed training job.
            trainer = TorchTrainer(train_func, scaling_config=scaling_config)
            result = trainer.fit()            


Setting up your training function
---------------------------------

First, update your training code to support distributed training. 
Begin by wrapping your code in a function:

.. code-block:: python

    def train_func(config):
        # Your PyTorch Lightning training code here.

This function is executed on each distributed training worker.


Ray Train sets up your distributed process group on each worker. You only need to 
make a few changes to your Lightning Trainer definition.

.. code-block:: diff

     import pytorch_lightning as pl
    -from pl.strategies import DDPStrategy
    -from pl.plugins.environments import LightningEnvironment
    +import ray.train.lightning 

     def train_func(config):
         ...
         model = MyLightningModule(...)
         datamodule = MyLightningDataModule(...)
        
         trainer = pl.Trainer(
    -        devices=[0,1,2,3],
    -        strategy=DDPStrategy(),
    -        plugins=[LightningEnvironment()],
    +        devices="auto",
    +        accelerator="auto",
    +        strategy=ray.train.lightning.RayDDPStrategy(),
    +        plugins=[ray.train.lightning.RayLightningEnvironment()]
         )
    +    trainer = ray.train.lightning.prepare_trainer(trainer)
        
         trainer.fit(model, datamodule=datamodule)

We now go over each change.

Configuring distributed strategy
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Ray Train offers several subclassed distributed strategies for Lightning. 
These strategies retain the same argument list as their base strategy classes. 
Internally, they configure the root device and the distributed 
sampler arguments.
    
- :class:`~ray.train.lightning.RayDDPStrategy` 
- :class:`~ray.train.lightning.RayFSDPStrategy` 
- :class:`~ray.train.lightning.RayDeepSpeedStrategy` 


.. code-block:: diff

     import pytorch_lightning as pl
    -from pl.strategies import DDPStrategy
    +import ray.train.lightning

     def train_func(config):
         ...
         trainer = pl.Trainer(
             ...
    -        strategy=DDPStrategy(),
    +        strategy=ray.train.lightning.RayDDPStrategy(),
             ...
         )
         ...

Configuring Ray cluster environment plugin
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Ray Train also provides :class:`~ray.train.lightning.RayLightningEnvironment` 
as a specification for Ray Cluster. This utility class configures the worker's 
local, global, and node rank and world size.


.. code-block:: diff

     import pytorch_lightning as pl
    -from pl.plugins.environments import LightningEnvironment
    +import ray.train.lightning

     def train_func(config):
         ...
         trainer = pl.Trainer(
             ...
    -        plugins=[LightningEnvironment()],
    +        plugins=[ray.train.lightning.RayLightningEnvironment()],
             ...
         )
         ...


Configuring parallel devices
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In addition, Ray TorchTrainer has already configured the correct 
``CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES`` for you. One should always use all available 
GPUs by setting ``devices="auto"`` and ``acelerator="auto"``.


.. code-block:: diff

     import pytorch_lightning as pl

     def train_func(config):
         ...
         trainer = pl.Trainer(
             ...
    -        devices=[0,1,2,3],
    +        devices="auto",
    +        accelerator="auto",
             ...
         )
         ...



Reporting checkpoints and metrics
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To persist your checkpoints and monitor training progress, add a 
:class:`ray.train.lightning.RayTrainReportCallback` utility callback to your Trainer. 

                    
.. code-block:: diff

     import pytorch_lightning as pl
     from ray.train.lightning import RayTrainReportCallback

     def train_func(config):
         ...
         trainer = pl.Trainer(
             ...
    -        callbacks=[...],
    +        callbacks=[..., RayTrainReportCallback()],
         )
         ...


Reporting metrics and checkpoints to Ray Train enables you to support :ref:`fault-tolerant training <train-fault-tolerance>` and :ref:`hyperparameter optimization <train-tune>`. 
Note that the :class:`ray.train.lightning.RayTrainReportCallback` only provides a simple implementation, and can be :ref:`further customized <train-dl-saving-checkpoints>`.

Preparing your Lightning Trainer
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Finally, pass your Lightning Trainer into
:meth:`~ray.train.lightning.prepare_trainer` to validate 
your configurations. 


.. code-block:: diff

     import pytorch_lightning as pl
     import ray.train.lightning

     def train_func(config):
         ...
         trainer = pl.Trainer(...)
    +    trainer = ray.train.lightning.prepare_trainer(trainer)
         ...


Configuring scale and GPUs
---------------------------

Outside of your training function, create a :class:`~ray.train.ScalingConfig` object to configure:

1. `num_workers` - The number of distributed training worker processes.
2. `use_gpu` - Whether each worker should use a GPU (or CPU).

.. code-block:: python

    from ray.train import ScalingConfig
    scaling_config = ScalingConfig(num_workers=2, use_gpu=True)


For more details, see :ref:`train_scaling_config`.

Launching your training job
---------------------------

Tying this all together, you can now launch a distributed training job 
with a :class:`~ray.train.torch.TorchTrainer`.

.. code-block:: python

    from ray.train.torch import TorchTrainer

    trainer = TorchTrainer(train_func, scaling_config=scaling_config)
    result = trainer.fit()

Please also refer to :ref:`train-run-config` for more configuration options for `TorchTrainer`.

Accessing training results
--------------------------

After training completes, a :class:`~ray.train.Result` object will be returned which contains
information about the training run, including the metrics and checkpoints reported during training.

.. code-block:: python

    result.metrics     # The metrics reported during training.
    result.checkpoint  # The latest checkpoint reported during training.
    result.log_dir     # The path where logs are stored.
    result.error       # The exception that was raised, if training failed.

.. TODO: Add results guide

Next steps
---------- 

After you have converted your PyTorch Lightningtraining script to use Ray Train:

* See :ref:`User Guides <train-user-guides>` to learn more about how to perform specific tasks.
* Browse the :ref:`Examples <train-examples>` for end-to-end examples of how to use Ray Train.
* Dive into the :ref:`API Reference <train-api>` for more details on the classes and methods used in this tutorial.

Version Compatibility
---------------------

Ray Train is tested with `pytorch_lightning` versions `1.6.5` and `2.0.4`. For full compatibility, use ``pytorch_lightning>=1.6.5`` . 
Earlier versions are not prohibited but may result in unexpected issues. If you run into any compatibility issues, consider upgrading your PyTorch Lightning version or 
`file an issue <https://github.com/ray-project/ray/issues>`_. 

.. _lightning-trainer-migration-guide:

``LightningTrainer`` Migration Guide
------------------------------------

The `LightningTrainer` was added in Ray 2.4, and exposes a  
`LightningConfigBuilder` to define configurations for `pl.LightningModule` 
and `pl.Trainer`. 

It then instantiates the model and trainer objects and runs a pre-defined 
training loop in a black box.


This version of the LightningTrainer API was constraining and limited 
the users' ability to manage the training functionality.

Ray 2.7 introduces the newly unified :class:`~ray.train.torch.TorchTrainer` API, which offers 
enhanced transparency, flexibility, and simplicity. This API is more aligned
with standard PyTorch Lightning scripts, ensuring users have better 
control over their native Lightning code.


.. tabs::

    .. group-tab:: (Deprecating) LightningTrainer


        .. code-block:: python
            
            from ray.train.lightning import LightningConfigBuilder, LightningTrainer

            config_builder = LightningConfigBuilder()
            # [1] Collect model configs
            config_builder.module(cls=MNISTClassifier, lr=1e-3, feature_dim=128)

            # [2] Collect checkpointing configs
            config_builder.checkpointing(monitor="val_accuracy", mode="max", save_top_k=3)

            # [3] Collect pl.Trainer configs
            config_builder.trainer(
                max_epochs=10,
                accelerator="gpu",
                log_every_n_steps=100,
                logger=CSVLogger("./logs"),
            )

            # [4] Build datasets on the head node
            datamodule = MNISTDataModule(batch_size=32)
            config_builder.fit_params(datamodule=datamodule)

            # [5] Execute the internal training function in a black box
            ray_trainer = LightningTrainer(
                lightning_config=config_builder.build(),
                scaling_config=ScalingConfig(num_workers=4, use_gpu=True),
                run_config=RunConfig(
                    checkpoint_config=CheckpointConfig(
                        num_to_keep=3,
                        checkpoint_score_attribute="val_accuracy",
                        checkpoint_score_order="max",
                    ),
                )
            )
            ray_trainer.fit()

                

    .. group-tab:: (New API) TorchTrainer

        .. code-block:: python
            
            import pytorch_lightning as pl
            from ray.train.torch import TorchTrainer
            from ray.train.lightning import (
                RayDDPStrategy, 
                RayLightningEnvironment,
                RayTrainReportCallback,
                prepare_trainer
            ) 

            def train_func(config):
                # [1] Create a Lightning model
                model = MNISTClassifier(lr=1e-3, feature_dim=128)

                # [2] Report Checkpoint with callback
                ckpt_report_callback = RayTrainReportCallback()
                
                # [3] Create a Lighting Trainer
                datamodule = MNISTDataModule(batch_size=32)

                trainer = pl.Trainer(
                    max_epochs=10,
                    log_every_n_steps=100,
                    logger=CSVLogger("./logs"),
                    # New configurations below
                    devices="auto",
                    accelerator="auto",
                    strategy=RayDDPStrategy(),
                    plugins=[RayLightningEnvironment()],
                    callbacks=[ckpt_report_callback],
                )

                # Validate your Lightning trainer configuration
                trainer = prepare_trainer(trainer)

                # [4] Build your datasets on each worker
                datamodule = MNISTDataModule(batch_size=32)
                trainer.fit(model, datamodule=datamodule)

            # [5] Explicitly define and run the training function
            ray_trainer = TorchTrainer(
                train_func_per_worker,
                scaling_config=ScalingConfig(num_workers=4, use_gpu=True),
                run_config=RunConfig(
                    checkpoint_config=CheckpointConfig(
                        num_to_keep=3,
                        checkpoint_score_attribute="val_accuracy",
                        checkpoint_score_order="max",
                    ),
                )
            )
            ray_trainer.fit()
