doc/source/ray-air/computer-vision.rst, before:

:orphan:

.. _computer-vision:

Computer Vision
===============

This guide explains how to perform common computer vision tasks like:

* `Reading image data`_
* `Transforming images`_
* `Training vision models`_
* `Batch predicting images`_
* `Serving vision models`_

Reading image data
------------------

.. tab-set::

    .. tab-item:: Raw images

        Datasets like ImageNet store files like this:

        .. code-block::

            root/dog/xxx.png
            root/dog/xxy.png
            root/dog/[...]/xxz.png

            root/cat/123.png
            root/cat/nsdf3.png
            root/cat/[...]/asd932_.png

        To load images stored in this layout, read the raw images and include the
        class names.

        .. literalinclude:: ./doc_code/computer_vision.py
            :start-after: __read_images1_start__
            :end-before: __read_images1_stop__
            :dedent:

        Then, apply a :ref:`user-defined function <transforming_data>` to
        encode the class names as integer targets.

        .. literalinclude:: ./doc_code/computer_vision.py
            :start-after: __read_images2_start__
            :end-before: __read_images2_stop__
            :dedent:

        .. tip::

            You can also use :class:`~ray.data.preprocessors.LabelEncoder` to encode labels.

    .. tab-item:: NumPy

        To load NumPy arrays into a :class:`~ray.data.Dataset`, separately read the image and label arrays.

        .. literalinclude:: ./doc_code/computer_vision.py
            :start-after: __read_numpy1_start__
            :end-before: __read_numpy1_stop__
            :dedent:

        Then, combine the datasets and rename the columns.

        .. literalinclude:: ./doc_code/computer_vision.py
            :start-after: __read_numpy2_start__
            :end-before: __read_numpy2_stop__
            :dedent:

    .. tab-item:: TFRecords

        Image datasets often contain ``tf.train.Example`` messages that look like this:

        .. code-block::

            features {
                feature {
                    key: "image"
                    value {
                        bytes_list {
                            value: ...  # Raw image bytes
                        }
                    }
                }
                feature {
                    key: "label"
                    value {
                        int64_list {
                            value: 3
                        }
                    }
                }
            }

        To load examples stored in this format, read the TFRecords into a :class:`~ray.data.Dataset`.

        .. literalinclude:: ./doc_code/computer_vision.py
            :start-after: __read_tfrecords1_start__
            :end-before: __read_tfrecords1_stop__
            :dedent:

        Then, apply a :ref:`user-defined function <transforming_data>` to
        decode the raw image bytes.

        .. literalinclude:: ./doc_code/computer_vision.py
            :start-after: __read_tfrecords2_start__
            :end-before: __read_tfrecords2_stop__
            :dedent:

    .. tab-item:: Parquet

        To load image data stored in Parquet files, call :func:`ray.data.read_parquet`.

        .. literalinclude:: ./doc_code/computer_vision.py
            :start-after: __read_parquet_start__
            :end-before: __read_parquet_stop__
            :dedent:


For more information on creating datasets, see :ref:`Loading Data <loading_data>`.


Transforming images
-------------------

To transform images, create a :class:`~ray.data.preprocessor.Preprocessor`. They're the
standard way to preprocess data with Ray.

.. tab-set::

    .. tab-item:: Torch

        To apply TorchVision transforms, create a :class:`~ray.data.preprocessors.TorchVisionPreprocessor`.

        Create two :class:`TorchVisionPreprocessors <ray.data.preprocessors.TorchVisionPreprocessor>`
        -- one to normalize images, and another to augment images. Later, you'll pass the preprocessors to :class:`Trainers <ray.train.trainer.BaseTrainer>`,
        :class:`Predictors <ray.train.predictor.Predictor>`, and
        :class:`PredictorDeployments <ray.serve.air_integrations.PredictorDeployment>`.

        .. literalinclude:: ./doc_code/computer_vision.py
            :start-after: __torch_preprocessors_start__
            :end-before: __torch_preprocessors_stop__
            :dedent:

    .. tab-item:: TensorFlow

        To apply TorchVision transforms, create a :class:`~ray.data.preprocessors.BatchMapper`.

        Create two :class:`~ray.data.preprocessors.BatchMapper` -- one to normalize images, and another to
        augment images. Later, you'll pass the preprocessors to :class:`Trainers <ray.train.trainer.BaseTrainer>`,
        :class:`Predictors <ray.train.predictor.Predictor>`, and
        :class:`PredictorDeployments <ray.serve.air_integrations.PredictorDeployment>`.

        .. literalinclude:: ./doc_code/computer_vision.py
            :start-after: __tensorflow_preprocessors_start__
            :end-before: __tensorflow_preprocessors_stop__
            :dedent:

For more information on transforming data, see
:ref:`Using Preprocessors <air-preprocessors>` and
:ref:`Transforming Data <transforming_data>`.

Training vision models
----------------------

:class:`Trainers <ray.train.trainer.BaseTrainer>` let you train models in parallel.

.. tab-set::

    .. tab-item:: Torch

        To train a vision model, define the training loop per worker.

        .. literalinclude:: ./doc_code/computer_vision.py
            :start-after: __torch_training_loop_start__
            :end-before: __torch_training_loop_stop__
            :dedent:

        Then, create a :class:`~ray.train.torch.TorchTrainer` and call
        :meth:`~ray.train.torch.TorchTrainer.fit`.

        .. literalinclude:: ./doc_code/computer_vision.py
            :start-after: __torch_trainer_start__
            :end-before: __torch_trainer_stop__
            :dedent:

        For more in-depth examples, see :ref:`Using Trainers <train-getting-started>`.

    .. tab-item:: TensorFlow

        To train a vision model, define the training loop per worker.

        .. literalinclude:: ./doc_code/computer_vision.py
            :start-after: __tensorflow_training_loop_start__
            :end-before: __tensorflow_training_loop_stop__
            :dedent:

        Then, create a :class:`~ray.train.tensorflow.TensorflowTrainer` and call
        :meth:`~ray.train.tensorflow.TensorflowTrainer.fit`.

        .. literalinclude:: ./doc_code/computer_vision.py
            :start-after: __tensorflow_trainer_start__
            :end-before: __tensorflow_trainer_stop__
            :dedent:

        For more information, check out :ref:`the Ray Train documentation <train-getting-started>`.

Creating checkpoints
--------------------

:class:`Checkpoints <ray.air.checkpoint.Checkpoint>` are required for batch inference and model
serving. They contain model state and optionally a preprocessor.

If you're going from training to prediction, don't create a new checkpoint.
:meth:`Trainer.fit() <ray.train.trainer.BaseTrainer.fit>` returns a
:class:`~ray.air.result.Result` object. Use
:attr:`Result.checkpoint <ray.air.result.Result.checkpoint>` instead.

.. tab-set::

    .. tab-item:: Torch

        To create a :class:`~ray.train.torch.TorchCheckpoint`, pass a Torch model and
        the :class:`~ray.data.preprocessor.Preprocessor` you created in `Transforming images`_
        to :meth:`TorchCheckpoint.from_model() <ray.train.torch.TorchCheckpoint.from_model>`.

        .. literalinclude:: ./doc_code/computer_vision.py
            :start-after: __torch_checkpoint_start__
            :end-before: __torch_checkpoint_stop__
            :dedent:

    .. tab-item:: TensorFlow

        To create a :class:`~ray.train.tensorflow.TensorflowCheckpoint`, pass a TensorFlow model and
        the :class:`~ray.data.preprocessor.Preprocessor` you created in `Transforming images`_
        to :meth:`TensorflowCheckpoint.from_model() <ray.train.tensorflow.TensorflowCheckpoint.from_model>`.

        .. literalinclude:: ./doc_code/computer_vision.py
            :start-after: __tensorflow_checkpoint_start__
            :end-before: __tensorflow_checkpoint_stop__
            :dedent:


Batch predicting images
-----------------------

:class:`~ray.train.batch_predictor.BatchPredictor` lets you perform inference on large
image datasets.

.. tab-set::

    .. tab-item:: Torch

        To create a :class:`~ray.train.batch_predictor.BatchPredictor`, call
        :meth:`BatchPredictor.from_checkpoint <ray.train.batch_predictor.BatchPredictor.from_checkpoint>` and pass the checkpoint
        you created in `Creating checkpoints`_.

        .. literalinclude:: ./doc_code/computer_vision.py
            :start-after: __torch_batch_predictor_start__
            :end-before: __torch_batch_predictor_stop__
            :dedent:

        For more in-depth examples, read :ref:`Using Predictors for Inference <air-predictors>`.

    .. tab-item:: TensorFlow

        To create a :class:`~ray.train.batch_predictor.BatchPredictor`, call
        :meth:`BatchPredictor.from_checkpoint <ray.train.batch_predictor.BatchPredictor.from_checkpoint>` and pass the checkpoint
        you created in `Creating checkpoints`_.

        .. literalinclude:: ./doc_code/computer_vision.py
            :start-after: __tensorflow_batch_predictor_start__
            :end-before: __tensorflow_batch_predictor_stop__
            :dedent:

        For more information, read :ref:`Using Predictors for Inference <air-predictors>`.

Serving vision models
---------------------

:class:`~ray.serve.air_integrations.PredictorDeployment` lets you
deploy a model to an endpoint and make predictions over the Internet.

Deployments use :ref:`HTTP adapters <serve-http>` to define how HTTP messages are converted to model
inputs. For example, :func:`~ray.serve.http_adapters.json_to_ndarray` converts HTTP messages like this:

.. code-block::

    {"array": [[1, 2], [3, 4]]}

To NumPy ndarrays like this:

.. code-block::

    array([[1., 2.],
            [3., 4.]])

.. tab-set::

    .. tab-item:: Torch

        To deploy a Torch model to an endpoint, pass the checkpoint you created in `Creating checkpoints`_
        to :meth:`PredictorDeployment.bind <ray.serve.air_integrations.PredictorDeployment.bind>` and specify
        :func:`~ray.serve.http_adapters.json_to_ndarray` as the HTTP adapter.

        .. literalinclude:: ./doc_code/computer_vision.py
            :start-after: __torch_serve_start__
            :end-before: __torch_serve_stop__
            :dedent:

        Then, make a request to classify an image.

        .. literalinclude:: ./doc_code/computer_vision.py
            :start-after: __torch_online_predict_start__
            :end-before: __torch_online_predict_stop__
            :dedent:

        For more in-depth examples, read about :ref:`Ray Serve <serve-getting-started>`.

    .. tab-item:: TensorFlow

        To deploy a TensorFlow model to an endpoint, pass the checkpoint you created in `Creating checkpoints`_
        to :meth:`PredictorDeployment.bind <ray.serve.air_integrations.PredictorDeployment.bind>` and specify
        :func:`~ray.serve.http_adapters.json_to_multi_ndarray` as the HTTP adapter.

        .. literalinclude:: ./doc_code/computer_vision.py
            :start-after: __tensorflow_serve_start__
            :end-before: __tensorflow_serve_stop__
            :dedent:

        Then, make a request to classify an image.

        .. literalinclude:: ./doc_code/computer_vision.py
            :start-after: __tensorflow_online_predict_start__
            :end-before: __tensorflow_online_predict_stop__
            :dedent:

        For more information, see :ref:`Ray Serve <serve-getting-started>`.

Commit message:

[AIR] Remove PredictorDeployment from examples (#37457)
This PR removes the AIR PredictorDeployment from examples and replaces them with Ray Serve deployments directly. This is more explicit and often time simpler and more understandable. It also reduces the number of ways in which things are done according to the Zen of Python `There should be one -- and preferably only one -- obvious way to do it.`

Signed-off-by: NripeshN <nn2012@hw.ac.uk>

doc/source/ray-air/computer-vision.rst, after:

:orphan:

.. _computer-vision:

Computer Vision
===============

This guide explains how to perform common computer vision tasks like:

* `Reading image data`_
* `Transforming images`_
* `Training vision models`_
* `Batch predicting images`_
* `Serving vision models`_

Reading image data
------------------

.. tab-set::

    .. tab-item:: Raw images

        Datasets like ImageNet store files like this:

        .. code-block::

            root/dog/xxx.png
            root/dog/xxy.png
            root/dog/[...]/xxz.png

            root/cat/123.png
            root/cat/nsdf3.png
            root/cat/[...]/asd932_.png

        To load images stored in this layout, read the raw images and include the
        class names.

        .. literalinclude:: ./doc_code/computer_vision.py
            :start-after: __read_images1_start__
            :end-before: __read_images1_stop__
            :dedent:

        Then, apply a :ref:`user-defined function <transforming_data>` to
        encode the class names as integer targets.

        .. literalinclude:: ./doc_code/computer_vision.py
            :start-after: __read_images2_start__
            :end-before: __read_images2_stop__
            :dedent:

        .. tip::

            You can also use :class:`~ray.data.preprocessors.LabelEncoder` to encode labels.

    .. tab-item:: NumPy

        To load NumPy arrays into a :class:`~ray.data.Dataset`, separately read the image and label arrays.

        .. literalinclude:: ./doc_code/computer_vision.py
            :start-after: __read_numpy1_start__
            :end-before: __read_numpy1_stop__
            :dedent:

        Then, combine the datasets and rename the columns.

        .. literalinclude:: ./doc_code/computer_vision.py
            :start-after: __read_numpy2_start__
            :end-before: __read_numpy2_stop__
            :dedent:

    .. tab-item:: TFRecords

        Image datasets often contain ``tf.train.Example`` messages that look like this:

        .. code-block::

            features {
                feature {
                    key: "image"
                    value {
                        bytes_list {
                            value: ...  # Raw image bytes
                        }
                    }
                }
                feature {
                    key: "label"
                    value {
                        int64_list {
                            value: 3
                        }
                    }
                }
            }

        To load examples stored in this format, read the TFRecords into a :class:`~ray.data.Dataset`.

        .. literalinclude:: ./doc_code/computer_vision.py
            :start-after: __read_tfrecords1_start__
            :end-before: __read_tfrecords1_stop__
            :dedent:

        Then, apply a :ref:`user-defined function <transforming_data>` to
        decode the raw image bytes.

        .. literalinclude:: ./doc_code/computer_vision.py
            :start-after: __read_tfrecords2_start__
            :end-before: __read_tfrecords2_stop__
            :dedent:

    .. tab-item:: Parquet

        To load image data stored in Parquet files, call :func:`ray.data.read_parquet`.

        .. literalinclude:: ./doc_code/computer_vision.py
            :start-after: __read_parquet_start__
            :end-before: __read_parquet_stop__
            :dedent:


For more information on creating datasets, see :ref:`Loading Data <loading_data>`.


Transforming images
-------------------

To transform images, create a :class:`~ray.data.preprocessor.Preprocessor`. They're the
standard way to preprocess data with Ray.

.. tab-set::

    .. tab-item:: Torch

        To apply TorchVision transforms, create a :class:`~ray.data.preprocessors.TorchVisionPreprocessor`.

        Create two :class:`TorchVisionPreprocessors <ray.data.preprocessors.TorchVisionPreprocessor>`
        -- one to normalize images, and another to augment images. Later, you'll pass the preprocessors to :class:`Trainers <ray.train.trainer.BaseTrainer>` and
        :class:`Predictors <ray.train.predictor.Predictor>`.

        .. literalinclude:: ./doc_code/computer_vision.py
            :start-after: __torch_preprocessors_start__
            :end-before: __torch_preprocessors_stop__
            :dedent:

    .. tab-item:: TensorFlow

        To apply TorchVision transforms, create a :class:`~ray.data.preprocessors.BatchMapper`.

        Create two :class:`~ray.data.preprocessors.BatchMapper` -- one to normalize images, and another to
        augment images. Later, you'll pass the preprocessors to :class:`Trainers <ray.train.trainer.BaseTrainer>` and
        :class:`Predictors <ray.train.predictor.Predictor>`.

        .. literalinclude:: ./doc_code/computer_vision.py
            :start-after: __tensorflow_preprocessors_start__
            :end-before: __tensorflow_preprocessors_stop__
            :dedent:

For more information on transforming data, see
:ref:`Using Preprocessors <air-preprocessors>` and
:ref:`Transforming Data <transforming_data>`.

Training vision models
----------------------

:class:`Trainers <ray.train.trainer.BaseTrainer>` let you train models in parallel.

.. tab-set::

    .. tab-item:: Torch

        To train a vision model, define the training loop per worker.

        .. literalinclude:: ./doc_code/computer_vision.py
            :start-after: __torch_training_loop_start__
            :end-before: __torch_training_loop_stop__
            :dedent:

        Then, create a :class:`~ray.train.torch.TorchTrainer` and call
        :meth:`~ray.train.torch.TorchTrainer.fit`.

        .. literalinclude:: ./doc_code/computer_vision.py
            :start-after: __torch_trainer_start__
            :end-before: __torch_trainer_stop__
            :dedent:

        For more in-depth examples, see :ref:`Using Trainers <train-getting-started>`.

    .. tab-item:: TensorFlow

        To train a vision model, define the training loop per worker.

        .. literalinclude:: ./doc_code/computer_vision.py
            :start-after: __tensorflow_training_loop_start__
            :end-before: __tensorflow_training_loop_stop__
            :dedent:

        Then, create a :class:`~ray.train.tensorflow.TensorflowTrainer` and call
        :meth:`~ray.train.tensorflow.TensorflowTrainer.fit`.

        .. literalinclude:: ./doc_code/computer_vision.py
            :start-after: __tensorflow_trainer_start__
            :end-before: __tensorflow_trainer_stop__
            :dedent:

        For more information, check out :ref:`the Ray Train documentation <train-getting-started>`.

Creating checkpoints
--------------------

:class:`Checkpoints <ray.air.checkpoint.Checkpoint>` are required for batch inference and model
serving. They contain model state and optionally a preprocessor.

If you're going from training to prediction, don't create a new checkpoint.
:meth:`Trainer.fit() <ray.train.trainer.BaseTrainer.fit>` returns a
:class:`~ray.air.result.Result` object. Use
:attr:`Result.checkpoint <ray.air.result.Result.checkpoint>` instead.

.. tab-set::

    .. tab-item:: Torch

        To create a :class:`~ray.train.torch.TorchCheckpoint`, pass a Torch model and
        the :class:`~ray.data.preprocessor.Preprocessor` you created in `Transforming images`_
        to :meth:`TorchCheckpoint.from_model() <ray.train.torch.TorchCheckpoint.from_model>`.

        .. literalinclude:: ./doc_code/computer_vision.py
            :start-after: __torch_checkpoint_start__
            :end-before: __torch_checkpoint_stop__
            :dedent:

    .. tab-item:: TensorFlow

        To create a :class:`~ray.train.tensorflow.TensorflowCheckpoint`, pass a TensorFlow model and
        the :class:`~ray.data.preprocessor.Preprocessor` you created in `Transforming images`_
        to :meth:`TensorflowCheckpoint.from_model() <ray.train.tensorflow.TensorflowCheckpoint.from_model>`.

        .. literalinclude:: ./doc_code/computer_vision.py
            :start-after: __tensorflow_checkpoint_start__
            :end-before: __tensorflow_checkpoint_stop__
            :dedent:


Batch predicting images
-----------------------

:class:`~ray.train.batch_predictor.BatchPredictor` lets you perform inference on large
image datasets.

.. tab-set::

    .. tab-item:: Torch

        To create a :class:`~ray.train.batch_predictor.BatchPredictor`, call
        :meth:`BatchPredictor.from_checkpoint <ray.train.batch_predictor.BatchPredictor.from_checkpoint>` and pass the checkpoint
        you created in `Creating checkpoints`_.

        .. literalinclude:: ./doc_code/computer_vision.py
            :start-after: __torch_batch_predictor_start__
            :end-before: __torch_batch_predictor_stop__
            :dedent:

        For more in-depth examples, read :ref:`Using Predictors for Inference <air-predictors>`.

    .. tab-item:: TensorFlow

        To create a :class:`~ray.train.batch_predictor.BatchPredictor`, call
        :meth:`BatchPredictor.from_checkpoint <ray.train.batch_predictor.BatchPredictor.from_checkpoint>` and pass the checkpoint
        you created in `Creating checkpoints`_.

        .. literalinclude:: ./doc_code/computer_vision.py
            :start-after: __tensorflow_batch_predictor_start__
            :end-before: __tensorflow_batch_predictor_stop__
            :dedent:

        For more information, read :ref:`Using Predictors for Inference <air-predictors>`.

Serving vision models
---------------------

:class:`~ray.serve.Deployment` lets you
deploy a model to an endpoint and make predictions over the Internet.

Deployments use :ref:`HTTP adapters <serve-http>` to define how HTTP messages are converted to model
inputs. For example, :func:`~ray.serve.http_adapters.json_to_ndarray` converts HTTP messages like this:

.. code-block::

    {"array": [[1, 2], [3, 4]]}

To NumPy ndarrays like this:

.. code-block::

    array([[1., 2.],
            [3., 4.]])

.. tab-set::

    .. tab-item:: Torch

        To deploy a Torch model to an endpoint, create a predictor from the checkpoint you created in `Creating checkpoints`_
        and serve via a Ray Serve deployment.

        .. literalinclude:: ./doc_code/computer_vision.py
            :start-after: __torch_serve_start__
            :end-before: __torch_serve_stop__
            :dedent:

        Then, make a request to classify an image.

        .. literalinclude:: ./doc_code/computer_vision.py
            :start-after: __torch_online_predict_start__
            :end-before: __torch_online_predict_stop__
            :dedent:

        For more in-depth examples, read about :ref:`Ray Serve <serve-getting-started>`.

    .. tab-item:: TensorFlow

        To deploy a TensorFlow model to an endpoint, use the checkpoint you created in `Creating checkpoints`_
        to create a Ray Serve deployment serving the model.

        .. literalinclude:: ./doc_code/computer_vision.py
            :start-after: __tensorflow_serve_start__
            :end-before: __tensorflow_serve_stop__
            :dedent:

        Then, make a request to classify an image.

        .. literalinclude:: ./doc_code/computer_vision.py
            :start-after: __tensorflow_online_predict_start__
            :end-before: __tensorflow_online_predict_stop__
            :dedent:

        For more information, see :ref:`Ray Serve <serve-getting-started>`.
