doc/source/cluster/running-applications/monitoring-and-observability.rst, before:

Cluster Monitoring
------------------

Ray ships with the following observability features:

1. :ref:`The dashboard <ray-dashboard>`, for viewing cluster state.
2. CLI tools such as the :ref:`Ray state APIs <state-api-overview-ref>` and :ref:`ray status <monitor-cluster>`, for checking application and cluster status.
3. :ref:`Prometheus metrics <multi-node-metrics>` for internal and custom user-defined metrics.

For more information on these tools, check out the more comprehensive :ref:`Observability guide <observability>`.

The rest of this page will focus on how to access these services when running a Ray Cluster.

Monitoring the cluster via the dashboard
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

:ref:`The dashboard <ray-dashboard>` provides detailed information about the state of the cluster,
including the running jobs, actors, workers, nodes, etc.
By default, the :ref:`cluster launcher <vm-cluster-quick-start>` and :ref:`KubeRay operator <kuberay-quickstart>` will launch the dashboard, but will
not publicly expose the port.

.. tabbed:: If using the VM cluster launcher

    You can securely port-forward local traffic to the dashboard via the ``ray
    dashboard`` command.

    .. code-block:: shell

        $ ray dashboard [-p <port, 8265 by default>] <cluster config file>

    The dashboard will now be visible at ``http://localhost:8265``.

.. tabbed:: If using Kubernetes

    The KubeRay operator makes the dashboard available via a Service targeting
    the Ray head pod, named ``<RayCluster name>-head-svc``. You can access the
    dashboard from within the Kubernetes cluster at ``http://<RayCluster name>-head-svc:8265``.

    You can also view the dashboard from outside the Kubernetes cluster by
    using port-forwarding:

    .. code-block:: shell

        $ kubectl port-forward service/raycluster-autoscaler-head-svc 8265:8265

    For more information about configuring network access to a Ray cluster on
    Kubernetes, see the :ref:`networking notes <kuberay-networking>`.


Using Ray Cluster CLI tools
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Ray provides several CLI tools for observing the current cluster and
application state.  The ``ray status`` command provides information about the
current status of nodes in the cluster, as well as information about
autoscaling. Other Ray CLI tools allow you to read logs across the cluster and
summarize application state such as the currently running tasks and actors.
These tools are summarized :ref:`here <state-api-overview-ref>`.

These CLI commands can be run on any node in a Ray Cluster. Examples for
executing these commands from a machine outside the Ray Cluster are provided
below.

.. tabbed:: If using the VM cluster launcher

    Execute a command on the cluster using ``ray exec``:

    .. code-block:: shell

        $ ray exec <cluster config file> "ray status"

.. tabbed:: If using Kubernetes

    Execute a command on the cluster using ``kubectl exec`` and the configured
    RayCluster name. We will use the Service targeting the Ray head pod to
    execute a CLI command on the cluster.

    .. code-block:: shell

        # First, find the name of the Ray head service.
        $ kubectl get pod | grep <RayCluster name>-head
        # NAME                                             READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
        # <RayCluster name>-head-xxxxx                     2/2     Running   0          XXs

        # Then, use the name of the Ray head service to run `ray status`.
        $ kubectl exec <RayCluster name>-head-xxxxx -- ray status

.. _multi-node-metrics:

Prometheus metrics
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Ray runs a metrics agent per node to export :ref:`metrics <ray-metrics>` about Ray core as well as
custom user-defined metrics. Each metrics agent collects metrics from the local
node and exposes these in a Prometheus format. You can then scrape each
endpoint to access Ray's metrics.

To scrape the endpoints, we need to ensure service discovery, allowing
Prometheus to find the metrics agents' endpoints on each node.

Auto-discovering metrics endpoints
##################################

You can allow Prometheus to dynamically find endpoints it should scrape by using Prometheus' `file based service discovery <https://prometheus.io/docs/guides/file-sd/#installing-configuring-and-running-prometheus>`_.
This is the recommended way to export Prometheus metrics when using the Ray :ref:`cluster launcher <vm-cluster-quick-start>`, as node IP addresses can often change as the cluster scales up and down.

Ray auto-generates a Prometheus `service discovery file <https://prometheus.io/docs/guides/file-sd/#installing-configuring-and-running-prometheus>`_ on the head node to facilitate metrics agents' service discovery.
This allows you to scrape all metrics in the cluster without knowing their IPs. Let's walk through how to acheive this.

The service discovery file is generated on the :ref:`head node <cluster-head-node>`. On this node, look for ``/tmp/ray/prom_metrics_service_discovery.json`` (or the eqiuvalent file if using a custom Ray ``temp_dir``).
Ray will periodically update this file with the addresses of all metrics agents in the cluster.

Ray automatically produces a Prometheus config which scrapes the file for service discovery found at `/tmp/ray/session_latest/metrics/prometheus/prometheus.yml`.
You can choose to use this config or modify your own to enable this behavior. The details of the config can be seen below and full documentation can be found at `here <https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/configuration/configuration/>`.

With this config, Prometheus will automatically update the addresses that it scrapes based on the contents of Ray's service discovery file.

.. code-block:: yaml

    # Prometheus config file

    # my global config
    global:
      scrape_interval:     2s
      evaluation_interval: 2s

    # Scrape from Ray.
    scrape_configs:
    - job_name: 'ray'
      file_sd_configs:
      - files:
        - '/tmp/ray/prom_metrics_service_discovery.json'

Manually discovering metrics endpoints
######################################

If you already know the IP addresses of all nodes in your Ray Cluster, you can
configure Prometheus to read metrics from a static list of endpoints. To
do this, first set a fixed port that Ray should use to export metrics.  If
using the cluster launcher, pass ``--metrics-export-port=<port>`` to ``ray
start``.  If using KubeRay, you can specify
``rayStartParams.metrics-export-port`` in the RayCluster configuration file.
The port must be specified on all nodes in the cluster.

If you do not know the IP addresses of the nodes in your Ray cluster, 
you can also programmatically discover the endpoints by reading the
Ray Cluster information. Here, we will use a Python script and the
``ray.nodes()`` API to find the metrics agents' URLs, by combining the
``NodeManagerAddress`` with the ``MetricsExportPort``. For example:

.. code-block:: python

    # On a cluster node:
    import ray
    ray.init()
    from pprint import pprint
    pprint(ray.nodes())

    """
    The <NodeManagerAddress>:<MetricsExportPort> from each of these entries
    should be passed to Prometheus.
    [{'Alive': True,
      'MetricsExportPort': 8080,
      'NodeID': '2f480984702a22556b90566bdac818a4a771e69a',
      'NodeManagerAddress': '192.168.1.82',
      'NodeManagerHostname': 'host2.attlocal.net',
      'NodeManagerPort': 61760,
      'ObjectManagerPort': 61454,
      'ObjectStoreSocketName': '/tmp/ray/session_2020-08-04_18-18-16_481195_34255/sockets/plasma_store',
      'RayletSocketName': '/tmp/ray/session_2020-08-04_18-18-16_481195_34255/sockets/raylet',
      'Resources': {'CPU': 1.0,
                    'memory': 123.0,
                    'node:192.168.1.82': 1.0,
                    'object_store_memory': 2.0},
      'alive': True},
    {'Alive': True,
     'MetricsExportPort': 8080,
     'NodeID': 'ce6f30a7e2ef58c8a6893b3df171bcd464b33c77',
     'NodeManagerAddress': '192.168.1.82',
     'NodeManagerHostname': 'host1.attlocal.net',
     'NodeManagerPort': 62052,
     'ObjectManagerPort': 61468,
     'ObjectStoreSocketName': '/tmp/ray/session_2020-08-04_18-18-16_481195_34255/sockets/plasma_store.1',
     'RayletSocketName': '/tmp/ray/session_2020-08-04_18-18-16_481195_34255/sockets/raylet.1',
     'Resources': {'CPU': 1.0,
                    'memory': 134.0,
                    'node:192.168.1.82': 1.0,
                    'object_store_memory': 2.0},
     'alive': True}]
    """

Commit message:

Improve documentation for setting up grafana and prometheus
Signed-off-by: Alan Guo <aguo@anyscale.com>

doc/source/cluster/running-applications/monitoring-and-observability.rst, after:

Cluster Monitoring
------------------

Ray ships with the following observability features:

1. :ref:`The dashboard <ray-dashboard>`, for viewing cluster state.
2. CLI tools such as the :ref:`Ray state APIs <state-api-overview-ref>` and :ref:`ray status <monitor-cluster>`, for checking application and cluster status.
3. :ref:`Prometheus metrics <multi-node-metrics>` for internal and custom user-defined metrics.

For more information on these tools, check out the more comprehensive :ref:`Observability guide <observability>`.

The rest of this page will focus on how to access these services when running a Ray Cluster.

Monitoring the cluster via the dashboard
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

:ref:`The dashboard <ray-dashboard>` provides detailed information about the state of the cluster,
including the running jobs, actors, workers, nodes, etc.
By default, the :ref:`cluster launcher <vm-cluster-quick-start>` and :ref:`KubeRay operator <kuberay-quickstart>` will launch the dashboard, but will
not publicly expose the port.

.. tabbed:: If using the VM cluster launcher

    You can securely port-forward local traffic to the dashboard via the ``ray
    dashboard`` command.

    .. code-block:: shell

        $ ray dashboard [-p <port, 8265 by default>] <cluster config file>

    The dashboard will now be visible at ``http://localhost:8265``.

.. tabbed:: If using Kubernetes

    The KubeRay operator makes the dashboard available via a Service targeting
    the Ray head pod, named ``<RayCluster name>-head-svc``. You can access the
    dashboard from within the Kubernetes cluster at ``http://<RayCluster name>-head-svc:8265``.

    You can also view the dashboard from outside the Kubernetes cluster by
    using port-forwarding:

    .. code-block:: shell

        $ kubectl port-forward service/raycluster-autoscaler-head-svc 8265:8265

    For more information about configuring network access to a Ray cluster on
    Kubernetes, see the :ref:`networking notes <kuberay-networking>`.


Using Ray Cluster CLI tools
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Ray provides several CLI tools for observing the current cluster and
application state.  The ``ray status`` command provides information about the
current status of nodes in the cluster, as well as information about
autoscaling. Other Ray CLI tools allow you to read logs across the cluster and
summarize application state such as the currently running tasks and actors.
These tools are summarized :ref:`here <state-api-overview-ref>`.

These CLI commands can be run on any node in a Ray Cluster. Examples for
executing these commands from a machine outside the Ray Cluster are provided
below.

.. tabbed:: If using the VM cluster launcher

    Execute a command on the cluster using ``ray exec``:

    .. code-block:: shell

        $ ray exec <cluster config file> "ray status"

.. tabbed:: If using Kubernetes

    Execute a command on the cluster using ``kubectl exec`` and the configured
    RayCluster name. We will use the Service targeting the Ray head pod to
    execute a CLI command on the cluster.

    .. code-block:: shell

        # First, find the name of the Ray head service.
        $ kubectl get pod | grep <RayCluster name>-head
        # NAME                                             READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
        # <RayCluster name>-head-xxxxx                     2/2     Running   0          XXs

        # Then, use the name of the Ray head service to run `ray status`.
        $ kubectl exec <RayCluster name>-head-xxxxx -- ray status

.. _multi-node-metrics:

Prometheus metrics
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Ray runs a metrics agent per node to export :ref:`metrics <ray-metrics>` about Ray core as well as
custom user-defined metrics. Each metrics agent collects metrics from the local
node and exposes these in a Prometheus format. You can then scrape each
endpoint to access Ray's metrics.

To scrape the endpoints, we need to ensure service discovery, allowing
Prometheus to find the metrics agents' endpoints on each node.

Auto-discovering metrics endpoints
##################################

You can allow Prometheus to dynamically find endpoints it should scrape by using Prometheus' `file based service discovery <https://prometheus.io/docs/guides/file-sd/#installing-configuring-and-running-prometheus>`_.
This is the recommended way to export Prometheus metrics when using the Ray :ref:`cluster launcher <vm-cluster-quick-start>`, as node IP addresses can often change as the cluster scales up and down.

Ray auto-generates a Prometheus `service discovery file <https://prometheus.io/docs/guides/file-sd/#installing-configuring-and-running-prometheus>`_ on the head node to facilitate metrics agents' service discovery.
This allows you to scrape all metrics in the cluster without knowing their IPs. Let's walk through how to acheive this.

The service discovery file is generated on the :ref:`head node <cluster-head-node>`. On this node, look for ``/tmp/ray/prom_metrics_service_discovery.json`` (or the eqiuvalent file if using a custom Ray ``temp_dir``).
Ray will periodically update this file with the addresses of all metrics agents in the cluster.

Ray automatically produces a Prometheus config which scrapes the file for service discovery found at `/tmp/ray/session_latest/metrics/prometheus/prometheus.yml`.
You can choose to use this config or modify your own to enable this behavior. The details of the config can be seen below and full documentation can be found at `here <https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/configuration/configuration/>`.

With this config, Prometheus will automatically update the addresses that it scrapes based on the contents of Ray's service discovery file.

.. code-block:: yaml

    # Prometheus config file

    # my global config
    global:
      scrape_interval:     2s
      evaluation_interval: 2s

    # Scrape from Ray.
    scrape_configs:
    - job_name: 'ray'
      file_sd_configs:
      - files:
        - '/tmp/ray/prom_metrics_service_discovery.json'

Manually discovering metrics endpoints
######################################

If you already know the IP addresses of all nodes in your Ray Cluster, you can
configure Prometheus to read metrics from a static list of endpoints. To
do this, first set a fixed port that Ray should use to export metrics.  If
using the cluster launcher, pass ``--metrics-export-port=<port>`` to ``ray
start``.  If using KubeRay, you can specify
``rayStartParams.metrics-export-port`` in the RayCluster configuration file.
The port must be specified on all nodes in the cluster.

If you do not know the IP addresses of the nodes in your Ray cluster,
you can also programmatically discover the endpoints by reading the
Ray Cluster information. Here, we will use a Python script and the
``ray.nodes()`` API to find the metrics agents' URLs, by combining the
``NodeManagerAddress`` with the ``MetricsExportPort``. For example:

.. code-block:: python

    # On a cluster node:
    import ray
    ray.init()
    from pprint import pprint
    pprint(ray.nodes())

    """
    The <NodeManagerAddress>:<MetricsExportPort> from each of these entries
    should be passed to Prometheus.
    [{'Alive': True,
      'MetricsExportPort': 8080,
      'NodeID': '2f480984702a22556b90566bdac818a4a771e69a',
      'NodeManagerAddress': '192.168.1.82',
      'NodeManagerHostname': 'host2.attlocal.net',
      'NodeManagerPort': 61760,
      'ObjectManagerPort': 61454,
      'ObjectStoreSocketName': '/tmp/ray/session_2020-08-04_18-18-16_481195_34255/sockets/plasma_store',
      'RayletSocketName': '/tmp/ray/session_2020-08-04_18-18-16_481195_34255/sockets/raylet',
      'Resources': {'CPU': 1.0,
                    'memory': 123.0,
                    'node:192.168.1.82': 1.0,
                    'object_store_memory': 2.0},
      'alive': True},
    {'Alive': True,
     'MetricsExportPort': 8080,
     'NodeID': 'ce6f30a7e2ef58c8a6893b3df171bcd464b33c77',
     'NodeManagerAddress': '192.168.1.82',
     'NodeManagerHostname': 'host1.attlocal.net',
     'NodeManagerPort': 62052,
     'ObjectManagerPort': 61468,
     'ObjectStoreSocketName': '/tmp/ray/session_2020-08-04_18-18-16_481195_34255/sockets/plasma_store.1',
     'RayletSocketName': '/tmp/ray/session_2020-08-04_18-18-16_481195_34255/sockets/raylet.1',
     'Resources': {'CPU': 1.0,
                    'memory': 134.0,
                    'node:192.168.1.82': 1.0,
                    'object_store_memory': 2.0},
     'alive': True}]
    """

Setting up Grafana and Metrics
##############################

One common pattern of supporting :ref:`metrics <ray-metrics>` on a remote ray cluster is by running the Prometheus and Grafana services
on the head node of the cluster. However, in order to view the :ref:`Dashboard <ray-dashboard>` metrics on your local
machine, you must configure the Dashboard UI to embed the metrics graphs via a public address for the Grafana instance.

The `RAY_GRAFANA_HOST` env var can be set when launching Ray to configure how the Dashboard UI embeds the metrics.
For example, if the ip of the head node is 55.66.77.88 and grafana is hosted on port 3000. One should set the value
to `RAY_GRAFANA_HOST=55.66.77.88:3000`.
