Workflow Metadata
=================

.. warning::

  The experimental Ray Workflows library has been deprecated and will be removed in a
  future version of Ray.

Observability is important for workflows - sometimes we not only want
to get the output, but also want to gain insights on the internal
states (e.g., to measure the performance or find bottlenecks).
Workflow metadata provides several stats that help understand
the workflow, from basic running status and task options to performance
and user-imposed metadata.

Retrieving metadata
-------------------
Workflow metadata can be retrieved with ``workflow.get_metadata(workflow_id)``.
For example:

.. testcode::
    :hide:

    import tempfile
    import ray

    temp_dir = tempfile.TemporaryDirectory()

    ray.init(storage=f"file://{temp_dir.name}")

.. testcode::

    import ray
    from ray import workflow

    @ray.remote
    def add(left: int, right: int) -> int:
        return left + right

    workflow.run(add.bind(10, 20), workflow_id="add_example")

    workflow_metadata = workflow.get_metadata("add_example")

    assert workflow_metadata["status"] == "SUCCESSFUL"
    assert "start_time" in workflow_metadata["stats"]
    assert "end_time" in workflow_metadata["stats"]

You can also retrieve metadata for individual workflow tasks by
providing the task name:

.. testcode::

    workflow.run(
        add.options(
            **workflow.options(task_id="add_task")
        ).bind(10, 20), workflow_id="add_example_2")

    task_metadata = workflow.get_metadata("add_example_2", task_id="add_task")

    assert "start_time" in workflow_metadata["stats"]
    assert "end_time" in workflow_metadata["stats"]

User-defined metadata
---------------------
Custom metadata can be added to a workflow or a workflow task by the user,
which is useful when you want to attach some extra information to the
workflow or workflow task.

- workflow-level metadata can be added via ``.run(metadata=metadata)``
- task-level metadata can be added via ``.options(**workflow.options(metadata=metadata))`` or in the decorator ``@workflow.options(metadata=metadata)``

.. testcode::

    workflow.run(add.options(**workflow.options(task_id="add_task", metadata={"task_k": "task_v"})).bind(10, 20),
        workflow_id="add_example_3", metadata={"workflow_k": "workflow_v"})

    assert workflow.get_metadata("add_example_3")["user_metadata"] == {"workflow_k": "workflow_v"}
    assert workflow.get_metadata("add_example_3", task_id="add_task")["user_metadata"] == {"task_k": "task_v"}

**Note: user-defined metadata must be a python dictionary with values that are
JSON serializable.**

Available Metrics
-----------------
**Workflow level**

- status: workflow states, can be one of RUNNING, FAILED, RESUMABLE, CANCELED, or SUCCESSFUL.
- user_metadata: a python dictionary of custom metadata by the user via ``workflow.run()``.
- stats: workflow running stats, including workflow start time and end time.

**Task level**

- name: name of the task, either provided by the user via ``task.options(**workflow.options(task_id=xxx))`` or generated by the system.
- task_options: options of the task, either provided by the user via ``task.options()`` or default by system.
- user_metadata: a python dictionary of custom metadata by the user via ``task.options()``.
- stats: task running stats, including task start time and end time.


Notes
-----
1. Unlike ``get_output()``, ``get_metadata()`` returns an immediate
result for the time it is called, this also means not all fields will
be available in the result if corresponding metadata is not available
(e.g., ``metadata["stats"]["end_time"]`` won't be available until the workflow
is completed).

.. testcode::

    import time

    @ray.remote
    def simple():
        time.sleep(1000)
        return 0

    workflow.run_async(simple.bind(), workflow_id="workflow_id")

    # make sure workflow task starts running
    time.sleep(2)

    workflow_metadata = workflow.get_metadata("workflow_id")
    assert workflow_metadata["status"] == "RUNNING"
    assert "start_time" in workflow_metadata["stats"]
    assert "end_time" not in workflow_metadata["stats"]

    workflow.cancel("workflow_id")

    workflow_metadata = workflow.get_metadata("workflow_id")
    assert workflow_metadata["status"] == "CANCELED"
    assert "start_time" in workflow_metadata["stats"]
    assert "end_time" not in workflow_metadata["stats"]

2. For resumed workflows, the current behavior is that "stats" will
be updated whenever a workflow is resumed.

.. testcode::

    from pathlib import Path

    workflow_id = "simple"

    error_flag = Path("error")
    error_flag.touch()

    @ray.remote
    def simple():
        if error_flag.exists():
            raise ValueError()
        return 0

    try:
        workflow.run(simple.bind(), workflow_id=workflow_id)
    except ray.exceptions.RayTaskError:
        pass

    workflow_metadata_failed = workflow.get_metadata(workflow_id)
    assert workflow_metadata_failed["status"] == "FAILED"

    # remove flag to make task success
    error_flag.unlink()
    ref = workflow.resume_async(workflow_id)
    assert ray.get(ref) == 0

    workflow_metadata_resumed = workflow.get_metadata(workflow_id)
    assert workflow_metadata_resumed["status"] == "SUCCESSFUL"

    # make sure resume updated running metrics
    assert workflow_metadata_resumed["stats"]["start_time"] > workflow_metadata_failed["stats"]["start_time"]
    assert workflow_metadata_resumed["stats"]["end_time"] > workflow_metadata_failed["stats"]["end_time"]

